{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Chinese dining etiquettes (Hong Kong area)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa220\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Most East Asian cuisines, with the exception of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusion_cuisine"}}{\fldrslt fusion}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thai_cuisine"}}{\fldrslt Thai}}, are consumed exclusively with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chopsticks"}}{\fldrslt chopsticks}}. The more Western style cuisines favor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cutlery"}}{\fldrslt cutlery}}. Some meals are more suited for the use of hands. One notable trend in restaurants is the limited number of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Napkins"}}{\fldrslt napkins}} provided during a meal. Most mid to low-tier restaurants operate under the assumption that customers bring their own napkins or tissue packs when dining. Standard {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_culture"}}{\fldrslt Western}} dining etiquettes are rarely observed even in upscale restaurants in Hong Kong.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}The Chinese prefer to entertain in public places rather than in their home, especially when entertaining foreigners. If you are invited to a Taiwanese home, it will happen once you have developed a relationship and should be considered a great honour.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Arrive on time.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Dress well. A great deal of emphasis on appearance. Dressing well gives face to your hosts.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Remove your shoes before entering the house.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Greet the eldest person first.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Table manners are more ritualized than in many western cultures.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The more formal the occasion, the stricter the protocol. If in doubt, watch what others do and emulate their behaviour.\
{\listtext	\'95	}It is important to learn to use chopsticks.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Wait to be told where to sit. The guest of honour will be given a seat facing the door.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The host begins eating first.\
{\listtext	\'95	}You should try everything that is offered to you. Never make faces or otherwise show any displeasure at what you are being served.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If there is some "food of honour" that you want to avoid being served, such as fish eyes, cheeks, or other such delicacies, you can forestall being offered such delicacies by serving them to others. Likewise, if you pull something unexpected up when serving yourself soup, you can either casually put the spoon back in the bowl and take another spoonful skimming the surface, or grab another\'92s bowl and serve them the delicacy.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If you really can\'92t bear eating something you have been served, let it sit in your bowl and eat around it.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If the host is seated near you, he may serve you. Otherwise, he will proffer the revolving tray.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Food is usually served on a revolving tray.\
{\listtext	\'95	}It is considered good manners to serve food and tea to those around you before serving yourself. Likewise, if you are going to smoke, offer a cigarette to others.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Never eat the last piece from the serving tray. It is polite to give others honour by serving them the last piece.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Make certain to revolve the tray to various parties around the table.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Be observant to other peoples' needs by placing food in other\'92s empty plates (be sure to use the serving utensils; otherwise use the back end of your chopsticks) and refilling glasses. It is a good way to break the ice.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Chopsticks should be returned to the chopstick rest after every few bites and when you drink or stop to speak.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Do not put bones in your bowl. Place them on the table or in a special bowl for that purpose.\
{\listtext	\'95	}It is acceptable to hold the bowl containing rice in your hand while eating, and to bend over the plate while eating. when the bowl of rice is nearly empty, hold the rice bowl close to your mouth while eating, and push the rice through your mouth with the chopsticks. Do not, however, lift the flat plates from the table.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Do not ask for soy sauce, salt, or other condiments to alter the taste of the food. If condiments are on the table, observe others to see how they are used.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Do not be offended if a Chinese person makes slurping or belching sounds; it merely indicates that they are enjoying their food.\
{\listtext	\'95	}When you have finished eating, place your chopsticks on the chopstick rest or on the table. Do not place your chopsticks across the top of your bowl.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Toothpicks are offered between courses and at the end of the meal. When using a toothpick, cup your spare hand over your mouth.\
{\listtext	\'95	}There are no strict rules about finishing all the food in your bowl.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The faster you empty your bowl, the more quickly it will be refilled. Therefore, if you are full, leave a little food in your bowl to avoid more food being served to you.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Alternatively, you can place your hand over your bowl if someone attempts to give you more.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If someone is attempting to give you the last of something, they are trying to honour you. It gives face to deflect the honour to them or someone else.\
{\listtext	\'95	}When you are full, feel free to say so. Your host will feel honoured that they have fed you well.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If you do not want your teacup refilled, leave a little at the bottom.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Rapping your knuckles on the table is a non-verbal means to say thank you.\
{\listtext	\'95	}When your teapot is empty, leave the top of the teapot open the waiter will refill it.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The host offers the first toast.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Women are not expected to consume alcoholic beverages.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The sense of group and group bonding is quite important, therefore if you do not drink, it is best to attribute your abstinence to health reasons, rather than moral reasons.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If the dinner is not a formal banquet, do offer several times to pay, the host will not accept but they will appreciate the gesture. End by saying next time it will be your treat, and be sure to reciprocate with a similar quality meal.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If you have been treated to a meal, it is acceptable to return the favour with a comparable meal. Do not exceed the level of service you received or you will embarrass your guest. It is best to bring your guest to a Chinese restaurant unless you know they are familiar with and enjoy western food.\
}